in listen-only mode welcome to the
database administration virtual chapter
meeting today we're going to have a
lecture on how to identify database
performance issues jean-joseph is the
speaker and I'm Julie bloomquist a
volunteer with the DBA virtual chapter
our meetings are sponsored by Dell and
they give us funding for the drawing at
the end we have some upcoming whoops we
have some upcoming sequel Saturdays and
you can find a full listing on the
sequel Saturday com if you're planning
to attend the past summit you can start
saving today it is the largest gathering
of sequel server and bi professionals
and there's over 190 technical sessions
and over 5,000 attendees will be
attending the fees 1895 until the 26 of
September and if you use the discount
code VC some 08 you can save one hundred
and fifty dollars here is a full list of
the past virtual chapter listings
there's new chapters all the time feel
free to go out with your past membership
and associate it with multiple virtual
chapters you'll just get notified of
when the meetings are and be able to
attend if you're interested in
volunteering with pass there's many
opportunities there's volunteering for
the different virtual chapters for past
there's also different awards that they
give out the outstanding volunteer award
and the passion award which they give
out annually at
so make sure you sign up for your free
membership and here's all the
information for pass itself so today
we're going to have a lecture on
identifying the database performance
issues jean-joseph has five years
experience working as a sequel server
DBA and four years as a developer and
he's gained of a lot of experience in
performance tuning database index design
manage storage fixing production issues
creating complex ssis package of course
disaster recovery in scripting it sounds
like a he's done everything I did want
to let everybody know that this is being
recorded and we will be posting this to
virtual chapter archive website and
we'll be taking questions at the end of
the lecture so Jean I'm going to make
you the presenter okay thank you so you
just need to share your screen yes I see
a flower okay good morning and good
afternoon because I know for some of you
it's morning for people like me it's
afternoon my name is George reserved I'm
a sequel 7gb and developer as done Julie
already introduced me this is a my email
some of your public know that email
especially when I go to any New York or
New Jersey sequel user group this is the
email that I normally share if you have
any concern about this session you can
email me after data today I will be
talking about how to identify database
performance issue this is a big topic
but this will be a 300-level talk
because of the main thing is most of the
time
identifying database performance issue
is not something easy by the way I I
want to be my you for example anytime
when you're doing troubleshooting you
got to know affirmation is the key right
most of the time I see when people
receive an email like this our reports
are warning slow so what people normally
do they always go and add in the exes
they always go to this store to
directly audit quality try to see if
they can modify it because if that
process used to be one perfect even for
example for a specific period of time
everything is getting slow it would be
better to troubleshoot instead of Adam
and exes um ah these are the element
that i will be talking especially when
everything is when your report is
running slow most of the time it's sign
either login blocking sometimes deadlock
happen if your statistic is not up to
data sometimes you you don't have
indexes or you Oh sometimes you have
duplicate index on your end data could
be five native base perimeter sniffing
they cpu less memory and then follow you
and network these are the elements that
i will be talking about for example
there's one thing i did not add which is
opened as action for all DBS and
developer open transaction any open
transaction is your enemy because this
is where everything will will get
started i will explain to you why let's
dive to me demo
I let me go to this demo and I will
explain to you why most of the time what
I normally seen people do when they
receive any email or divisive and any
information from the boss or any end
users what they do they always go to
activity monitor its to activity monitor
will give you information but there are
some information that you won't be able
to fight for my TV to monitor people who
have strong experience already know from
this where we have one open transaction
and if i go to activity monitor there is
no way i can see them there's no way i
can see that so i have one open
transactions right activity monitor
cannot hurt me let's say while the open
transaction is there somebody one-on-one
a liver and that we put requests on that
same set of data this is where blood can
wheel this is where an activity monitor
will help you it will show you this any
block right but let's say if you're
dealing with lazy people i know people
the one on the report if the report used
to take five second and it takes 20
seconds they just stop the process and
then the email you decide everything is
slow how will you identify that because
first of all people who love activity
monitor they're gonna go and check if
that any blocking now there's no blocker
but you have one enemy gear let's go and
check this hello let me check if this
any broken no there's no blocking let me
check if there's any open transactions
right i got one open transactions so
that open transaction I can't see 53
have one open transactions right and I
know exactly who want that query and I
can look at the service right i mean the
open transaction is a performance killer
because II for the open transaction
is there and this is the time people
when I read this information there's no
way you can read it because you have to
remember 52 it still waiting for either
coming or hold back let's say for
example you got that email it would be
better to expression right you said
everything is running slow how long it
needs to one so right now I'm just check
activity monitor everything looks good I
want my craving there's no blocking
there's nothing wrong right can you
please we want that report and then let
okay so that user listen to you and it
tried to warn that before no activity
monitor will help you I can quickly see
it seems like I pick up the one query
give me one second yeah so this is it
okay so okay now activity monitor will
help you I can quickly see right there's
one open transaction but one open
transaction activity monitoring exactly
it gave me the crime that 57 let me see
if I'm right gave me the craving that 58
was warning but if I need to get
information from 53 right let me check
to see what 53 was doing ok I can
quickly see there's not open transaction
the reason why I know will now we'll
never encourage people to look at
Activity Monitor one day a slowness
activity monitor will give you a
formation one day is block ok anytime
there is blocking yeah it will let you
know but if you want to know it as any
open transaction these are the element
that will kill your performance and this
is the element that you need to pay
attention so I want you to know so
before before when I want this permit
this was bread so now if I
we won it again I have 58 is being
blocked by 53 and 58 have a share lock
on it right if you look at a 53-52 has
one open 10 transaction and it's not
even committed yet so got this for me
from this website and I really like it
the reason why I bought this friday i
will explain to you why sometimes people
go online when the gold line that just
get the query i can look at the result
set but one thing i want you to pay
attention they said 53 right 58 is being
blocked by 53 let me see if I can get
her that 53 why is 53 there's no 53 a
lookout for 53 no 53 right let me check
to see if 50s exist right how am I am
able to see 58 and I'm not able to see
53 the reason why is like the an exactor
request will give you any life of any
last query that then one whereas sis
processes will give you the history I
can go a little bit deeper and see if 52
is exist right this is 53 and I can
really i can look at 52 have one open
transaction and I know who's who who's
the the logon name okay I already know
ok this is waiting for either hold back
or comic right and I look at 5757 right
has no open transaction so what I am
sorry this should be 58 right if you
look at a 50th right have a shitload me
on it so so far so good let's see for
example
if I wanna look at the text see what was
happening okay so this is the text for
let me look at all 53 this is the text
this is exactly what 53 was during 53 it
was it open a transaction and update
that table but 53 didn't finish the
transaction this is I will explain to
you this is where everything gets a
little bit complicated right so if I
request for any block came right let's
see if I have more information and then
let me go ahead and update and open one
order transactions you will see what
will happen I'm gonna this is this is
another open transaction right this is
finish and a 153 to be able to read it
so 53 is being blocked now what I want
you to understand is that this is where
user can lie to you this is where for
example developer also can line two they
always they always say listen I don't
know nothing let let let me go and
explain this to you however 5353 had one
open transaction like and what I am
looking at the text i want you to see
this 53 was select just one hundred
information from table right former
person right so when you look at this
there's no educational journey 53 had
one open transaction if i am looking at
the text i just want you to be with me
and understand exactly what i am saying
because 53 had one open transaction most
of the time people pay attention of the
text they wanna know exactly
let me see what he was wanted before I
can't see that before i can see that big
and shred update right so now the the
comment right was awaiting comment no
it's silly if you don't know how to talk
to your developer Oh to your users
they're going to lie to you this is how
I normally read this information perhaps
I know 53 had one open transaction after
53 finish to finish to execute that open
transaction 56 probably want to lead the
affirmation to see exactly even if the
object applied successfully so let's say
if that person forgot to commit a word
by the transaction you need to know how
to talk you need to let that pass on all
that was Jean Jean on so-and-so dead you
had one transaction up and right so that
turns out after you open that
transaction you probably go and read
information from person table right and
then you forgot to close a word bank
that transaction if you don't mind I can
send you a screenshot and show you for
example you did have one transaction
open and you didn't commit it so because
of that we have some reporting are not
able to we have some reporter from
Cardinals or the poetic dishes services
then I able to want the bane block so
this is exactly why I bought this
example because people always get
confused they always look at the query
and if they see there's any big and Tre
they feel like okay this is good if they
go to Activity Monitor they don't see
any any blocking or locking they feel
like everything is running perfect the
reason why I brought this is that any
open transaction right is
a performance killer and that also for
DV is I'm talking you cannot let
developers have any open transaction
that's been there for more than five
seconds because it's if they are dealing
with big set of data it would be better
to break it down into smaller chunk
right and have that open and open
anytime when they open the transaction
they have to commit it at the same time
the reason why I'm saying this off me
also let me show you what will happen
right so now we have to open
transactions I have this as I select I
have this as if awaiting comment people
when just start learning the end is
right anytime on your CDs and this is
this okay all that person wanna do is to
read information but you have one open
transaction you need to go back and know
exactly why why for example that person
leave that open one transaction and
didn't committed let's see if this
happened on Friday and that castle rock
is from Peter and go if that person that
have access remotely to fix it you got
to be able to do that you can ask that
person for permission if you can kill
that process let's say if for example
they allow you to kill that process
right if I kill it even though this is a
I'm talking about how to identify
performance database performance issue
not how to fix it I just want to give
you that simple and example and prove to
you for example if that person is out
right even though you look at these two
that doesn't mean there's no open
transaction right if I kill that 53 this
is 53 when I kill 5358 get millions and
I'm able to see the data the information
that I want to read like I said you need
to pay attention of the open transaction
because on my experience this is the one
that normally create a lot of issue
because if you're not able to with this
I'm telling you you're going to be
insurable and then also when I say
information is the matter you need to
know that as a IT guy you cannot work
before information any time when users
are complaining you need to get
information before you start doing any
troubleshooting let me share this
experience if you one day I had an email
former one of my boss they said this is
a simple insert and it takes forever and
disperses never finish when I check to
see if there's any open transaction it
does any broken there's no block him and
I start troubleshooting check to see if
I have enough memory CPU guess what
happened there's one developer he was
ccc to that email he emailed the user
and said did you get any give a message
back they usually play back and say yes
I did they said that the mdf file is for
right now the developer came to me and
said listen when I used to be a TV he
didn't tell me for example if he got
information when that happened and this
is a simple insert right it's not a lot
of record I used to check to see if I
have enough space for my god a base file
I said that good idea when I go and
share even though we did have some other
and everything so that that time we were
busy and we were not able to check out
our emails so the guy said okay this is
what I was gonna do and I listened to
him and I go and check to see if I have
enough space Chewie no I went out of
space so I chunk it I Shriker that
database in order to release some free
space and I let my boss
oh chicken um we will of the
process and then that takes less than
one second to that answer just the
information is the key if you wanna if
you wanna be good at identifying
database performance issue you need to
take information you need to learn that
don't that you know everything because
you for affirmation even though you're
good you won't be able to troubleshoot
let me for example as I talk about open
a transaction and I taught you how to
blocking let me talk about statistic
because if i go back to my slide deck
and position statistic was part of it
right as we all know in order for you to
have a good plan your statistic has to
be up to date most of the time the
optimizer learnt was it light was not
because the optimizer don't know what
it's doing it knows but the thing is the
optimizer needs statistical to work in
order for you to have a good cry plan
your statistic has to be up to date i
think i have one demo for that let me
see if i can go and get and have that
demo now ok
and look at this this is one example
that make clear that database and create
that table ok I created so let me insert
some way card to that table let me check
to see if they statistic there is no
statistic remember this Cesar hit table
conseco server we have to type of table
either we have closer and here if you
look at this there is no statistic even
though if you have auto statistic on
right once you insert there's no
statistic but let's see what will happen
if I clear this when I create this this
automatic in general create a new
statistic this is the statistic right
even though it's a hit people I can see
that this is how many records that i
have my sample i can quickly see my
status thickness of today everything is
equal I and I can go a little bit
further and ce4 my statistics give me a
good result let me do this I can check
to see let me in check a couple ok I
have these have 69 yards let me see if I
have Eva my quail give me the same
result I have 69 okay let me check
blonde on I'm partition let me check lon
don
none don't have to 34 let me check here
if you want done is up to death 334 so I
cannot check every single one because we
got only three hours to go what I want
you to know is that so right now we have
for example our ma we have our statistic
up to date the reason why I did not go
to the crawling plan and show you if
this is not up to date you will get a
bad plan just because we got only one
hour and this is a big topic to talk
about let me create one index right and
I want to look at that index look at my
statistic right so now I have her that
and that's right my index everything is
equal and remember statistic will update
it if you answer twenty percent right
plus 500 to that table otherwise it
won't get updated so let me see if I can
insert a couple more records to that
table so as I insert let me check to see
if my statistics still up to date
when you look at this this is the number
of record statistic told me that is
there to that table which is not sure
before it was true right this is the
sample now this is the wrong value trust
me if you have any report for it to that
table you won't get a good plan for that
because your statistic is out of today
this is the best way for me when I'm
troubleshooting anything I normally make
sure if my statistic is up to date if
you look at this also even my index is
they don't have the right information
that's the reason why I just told you
before I begin I told you for example a
a ransom when you're everything is
slowing down it's not a good practice to
go and add ndex you need to know exactly
why that happened so now i can quickly
see ok my statistic is not up to date
okay i can understand that could be the
reason why everything is getting slowly
they go and object that starts asleep
right once i update that statistic for
this table let me see if everything will
be the same right so this is it this is
the number of record that aha this is my
card for my table let me show you are
declaring right I just got everything
from this table this is the result that
I got if I match this that should be the
same so that's me my statistic is up to
date and I'm pretty sure i will get a
better plan and better performance from
there right because statistic me so much
if you if you care about vomited
sniffing you care about scanning data
trust me
your statistic has to be up to date and
then this is the best way that you can
take a look and play with your data
that's the best way this is for me the
best way I feel like I can understand
exactly why that happened why my
statistic inza is not up to the easy
right why everything is slowing down and
then also if I go back to my slider let
me see what else I have to talk let me
talk now about index right so um before
I go to index one thing that I want to
share to you some people they forget
about database setting right clean your
database is easy I will explain to you
why anybody can go and create a database
but if you use the default setting take
a have a demo for that if you use the
difficult setting this will embark on
any object any delay and any answer
because remember these three element
will require auto go to happen and you
don't want that when you use the default
setting so that's when Otto Bo will
happen frequently let me give you that
same data sample example especially if
you have some each year that is more
than data from one place to another
where there's a lot of transaction
there's a lot of instr there is a lot of
delay trust me that data be setting
would help you it will be a performance
killer let me put this to you I have
created this database and I use the
default setting we all consider after
that I will use it and I will create
this table right when I create this
table I want to insert this 500 time
this is a loop we all know that all I
want you to do is to cover the second
which may see how long it will take to
finish this is all I want you to do
let's see how long it will take right
two second three second four five six
seven eight okie seven seconds and i use
this just with the default setting let's
say if i don't want to use the default
setting i don't want a 10-percent 10 meg
I just give up give enough form to the
files let's see what will happen let's
judge this and let's recreate this we
Jordan we create it right let's do
insert this and check to see how long it
will take one two three four four seven
it's almost half so just to show you
it's good sometimes when you take other
indexes right but it would be better
sometimes when you look look up the
overall picture because indexes it's
going to be good too with the data I
take a half some demo for that let's let
me see if I can go to that demo and show
you for example sometimes and that's
what helped you especially if you're
dealing with big big big big big big
data right so big set of data sometimes
it would be better easier to use
partition or like use the old fashioned
which is you just insert it into a
different table and then you delete it
from your oil cpt board databases let me
go to that indexes are ma before i go to
that index is julie miedo know if there
is any questions yes it's just a few one
was just how to identify if an open
transaction is business as usual or
something out of the ordinary
here's what i do i normally have one
desktop body tools that can do that but
what I did me I have one exercise
package and I put all my server name
every for example five minutes it want
to see if there's any open transaction
if the open transaction is more than 10
seconds this is let me give you let me
go back to G so so this way i can show
you a model like let's say it um hold on
and go back to this again let's see if I
have this friend I have this I have one
open transaction so what I do I will
query this i will subtract the time from
the arma from this DMV if it's longer
using the last bash this is the last
time this very one i will subtract this
on with the gadget if this is indistinct
longer than five second if this is take
longer than thoughts again what I will
do I will send an email to all of us all
the dvds and and let me know me i will
get the server name the database name
the table name and I will get to the
query and the user name right so this is
how I keep track now that I don't know
if the answer that question does that
answer your question sure you're just
you're monitoring looking for the open
transactions right then I think that's
fine the the next one was if we would be
able to get a copy of some of your
scripts so that we could post those
they're all will be
online and how often do you update
statistics for databases that's a nice
question to be honest with you it
depends because we big set of data let's
say if your table is very huge I will
not commit you to do that during the
business day but you can do that for
example the Eva Eva your application is
not being used or normally you can
schedule a job to do that every weekend
that should be good and that's the next
question was if we could update the
statistics any time or if it's required
on non-business hours so it sounds like
if it's really large you should do it on
the non-business hours yes something
simple that will take less then once
again it would be better to do it um
like I can't say if it's it by the way
if the table is small I don't think you
will really see upon us decrease to that
table if it's small but if it's very big
this is where you can see it but
normally with big table it's better to
do it to non-business that's a further
questions we have about 25 minutes left
okay so let's go the next one is a whole
bodies
this the next one is I want to show you
for example for the end X and be honest
with you this is an after this is a
separate session if you want I can give
you but now we'll show you sometimes
even though when you add index depend of
how big is the table it will be better
to iterate us partition or either use
the old fashioned which is inside those
information into a different table and
generated from the table it from the
table that is life in your adoption
server so let's say we have this right
let me move this okay it seems like
churches okay so this is it let's say
you have for example and people that is
one only for this specific nah that is
need only those information does five
information from person table and then
somebody else want that report and then
that doesn't say the first one used to
take hollow less than once again this
one I have to wait I have to weigh it
takes me seven seven so you for example
as it did be a once that happened any
time under talking to you I can see the
volume of the data and and I can take
also of the family sniffing what I
normally do I will for example have
become and distant based on the person
type because I see this leaf or based on
the person type and this is what all
they want when I look at SP SP have me
only 200 regards
and when I look at iron which is then
this will have more than 43,000 regards
so what you're going to do in this case
let's see if we add and that if that
will help the reason why I add multiple
different index just to show you
sometimes you need to take smile and you
need to work smart instead of adding
more headed to your oil GP database let
me see if that index is there I want to
job it fits there let me create that
index right when I create that index let
me select this disinformation right let
me see that this information for him let
me see if then we'll get me the result
before seven surgeon and I have 1 and X
6 seconds how come a half and that's
funny and it taking six seconds this is
where you need to take if your
application is calling this information
remotely you need to take of that you
need to take of the network band but you
need to take off your mu also because
indexes are based on value you got to
you need to take off that you cannot
take for example if you add the end XD
it will this end that will help you one
hundred percent you need to text my so
let me jump that index what I see
sometimes people do with big set of data
they said okay let me include all those
information let me see if I will get a
better result that equally that same
word again let's see how long it will
take two three
six seconds right sometimes what I have
seen we develop a when they get mad they
feel like okay I have to fix this I have
to fix these people complain too much
they want to add a filter index they
just really said as I see I is the
bigger one I'm going to create one
indexer a filter and that's just what
the specific value let's see if this
will work right let's clear it let's
select and see what will happen 26
seconds why is it because my index is
not help me yes it is you can see that
it was seven so again now it's a i'm
using my local computer right the aisle
is like that good let's say if you have
to execute this VR Wemo and your
application need to pass by you know all
the network traffic what would you do so
you need to take you need to text my
during identifying database performance
issue is not only slowness you need to
know your environment you need to you to
know your network godspeed you need to
know your network bands with you need to
know for example how many people sister
you have if you want to use your query
in panel you need to know your I owe you
need to be you have to make sure
everything is is in order in order for
you to give a better result set to that
to the users or to your bi or to your
application right so this is one example
that I was working on it to show you
sometimes if you're in the exa are fun
making that can impact your performance
but I don't want to really quickly go in
that because
I'm fiducial now you will take a look at
it but the time is it sorted it's
already 443 what I'm gonna do let me go
ahead and move on to another demo ok so
now i will be talking about parameters
sniffing parameters sniffing right
parmita sniffing is a for example let me
get take this and I will explain better
do I have a query there I think I do
let's see if I have this right if I'm in
the right that means let's see if I have
this a user call me and say listen I
have my report its financial and me as a
DBA I go and check this everything is
okay and I see my hand x are not 520 I
have enough you know far processor
removing that's not blocking a statistic
up to date so what i will do next i will
check to see if there's any biochar
sleeping what I normally do I will look
at how the application of the river
equals those affirmation I need to look
at the cottage are all the way in or I
wanna look at and see how much records
tab for each one like I can see for way
I got 150 that 115 if you if you want
the river with this where you want to
look for that value day it will create a
plan and that plan sequel server will be
using even though if you call black you
see how big is the blood it still will
use the same thing
that can decrease your performance let's
say that to a demo let me see and so I
have it there let me see if I have this
leg let me go this way okay see if i can
create it i will show you okay that's
perfect but I creatives and then that
means that introduced let that let me
create this okay creatives let the
insert into this okay his word I want
you to know the first clearly already
told me days that Daisy fought
percentage that I can have panic and
sniffing what I will do let me turn on
this one okay let me execute when I
execute it I want to look at the same
car if I check this out I want you to be
with me right when I look at this this
is the week or that idea when I look at
this this is the record that I get right
so what when I check right when I check
this I want to look at to see um the
compile value when you look at the
compile value is great when you look at
the one time value is great I want you
to understand compound and one time
value the above grade let me see what
will happen to this let me look at to
see the the parameter compile value is
great and the parameter compile one time
department at one time value is black
and trust me from there I can see the
s-parameter sniffing right we all
consider the ice perimeter sniffing
because the we should have a plan the
odds in mother created for the first
time this sp1 it saved that value and we
use that pattern
let's go a little bit fatter let's
continue okay so let me um this is one
way that you can fix it but you can use
an optimizer and then you pass our data
variable and then you pass that ball
right off oh no this is one way you can
fix this that's one way you just decry
lock available this is how I normally do
it fully answer this is scholar call
this as equal log is over and pass this
to my work clothes let me see if I will
get this single compound value let me
want that Leslie when I want that SP
right when I look at this even though
they look the same I got a different
time and I have a missing index
unfortunately we don't have time to go
to that if I go and look at the compile
value the compile value is going well
when I look at this the compile value is
black sometimes when people tell you
this use to 14 once again now it's
running forever this is the virtual you
can go and see if there's any dynamic as
methane as I I know it's it's 15 it's a
almost 12 50 let me see if I can go skip
songs line right let's say for example
if your application is down this is the
one that I really want to talk when my
application is down or people said
listen I'm not able to connect oh I get
them out this is the way I normally go
and I'm purchase you a lot of of you
probably do the same have used to use
the same way right so what I normally do
i normally disconnect and reconnect so
if if this won't take more than one
second to reconnect
so that's when there's an issue what I
know how to do also I will see to see I
will check to see if I am able to see
all the database if I'm if that takes
more than three seconds are once again
definite is something wrong and I will
dig down and I will go a little bit
father try to do a sample select top
1000 so depend on how long it takes so
now I will troubleshoot but let's see if
everything looks good right so this is
where you need to sit I will explain to
you this is where for example you need
to see remember before I go to this let
me explain this developer an application
support right this is the Quattro up
this is the arm than what those
applications like all those application
connect to your production server
instead of 4gb 8.2 IT admin actually
haven't led to the video i will tell you
why any time when there is something
wrong GBA always get the bang so if you
know you need to do your own diagnostic
i will explain to you first of all you
got to make to see how many connection
look at the client connection right if
there is no answer right if you know
will affect anything what I will
encourage you to do before you go and
talk to any developer to any networking
guy it would be better to look at a
sequel server overload look at sequel
server echeck log look at Windows Event
not check to see if there's any warning
if there's any failure when you make
sure everything is all set and you check
to see if you if management studio is
cable to connect to the engine if
manager studio is able to connect and
you're able to select so that's where
this is not database issue that should
be application issue right so Julie um
the chinese i will give you know i don't
know if i have many questions you
children because it's almost time oh yes
you do do you wanna go through those
that yeah do you want do you want to go
through the questions now or it's just a
couple more one was asking about why you
do the update statistics manually when
it can be set in the database process
property you know is that not sufficient
yeah to be honest with me few let's say
if you have 100 records into a table if
you if you insert 10ma record auto
update statistic will not happen because
you have to insert twenty percent of
that vehicle you had already into that
table plus 500 right so auto update
statistic will help you if you have
small amount of data when you have big
amount like what you're dealing with
billion of Records auto update statistic
hurt you because um it will need a
bigger cut amma of records in order to
update that statistic and then also the
object statistic if you leave it on
depend of the environment is good for
some other involvement is not good
especially when you dealing with a big
set of data because any time that
happened it will slow down on your
performance does that concern your
question Julie yes the other one it has
to do with can they create a clustered
index on non primary key column and if
yes does it affect the performance can
you create one index a clustered index
on non primary key columns so that is
you know I've had experience with that
where you really need to look at your
table and how its access
the majority of the time because you can
have your table organized by a cluster
index which is not your primary key yes
um that's a nice question but juni I
don't really um can you repeat it me
again if you don't know sure can we
create clustered index on non primary
key columns to be honest with you
unknown primary key column if you can
create index sure none of the tribe
board based on my experience I can say
yes yeah so I've had that where the
clustered index is not the key columns
or is it oh no no I get that question
yeah no no I get it so now I can answer
that okay so human for example if you
can create aa choosing a non-clustered
index it's going to be based on the
business requirement most of the time
because let's say if you have a primary
key on on your life ID table like
identity most of the time it would be
better to add that cluster index Oh
basil on the business logic yeah like
data are you okay we've got unit yeah
it's looking at the business logic and
how the tables use and that's what you
want your clustering index to be the
next one is I have a remote office with
bandwidth of 1.5 25 meg and we have
performance issues all the time is this
considered low bandwidth yeah and that's
it for the questions thank you so much I
think it's done right yes it is and i
wanted to mention
today's raffle winner is Kevin Wilkie
it's kevin Wilkie at Tom coins com he's
going to be getting a fifty-dollar
amazon gift card which is courtesy of
our sponsor Dell software and they'll be
notifying a pass will be notifying that
you're the winner today I wanted to
thank john for his lecture today and we
will be posting the recording to our
archive website one question Julia will
I be able to upload this trip to see
coupons upload the what you see I if you
could email that to me i'll upload it to
the website as well oh I I have people
also asking if you could go to your
first slide where you had your email
address yes so here's his email address
it's a tee sequel help @ gmail.com and i
think we had quite a bit more to cover
so Jean if you want to get with Sharon
perhaps we can get you for another
lecture so I wanted to thank everybody
for attending today and thank you for
your presentation thank you all